---
title: Exploring the Homebrew Codebase &#35;1
description: Studying the various download strategies used by Homebrew
---

Hello, there!

This is the second blog in the series of many. By now, you guys have probably checked out Homebrew's [repository](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew). Today, lets explore the various downloading strategies used by Homebrew.

### What is a Downloading Strategy?
When you download a file using the command line, you usually run a command, `curl`. You've probably heard of it, and you may be thinking, "Why doesn't Homebrew simply run `curl <file>` and be done with it?" Well, it ain't so simple.

Usually, downloading involves many different kinds of files, deals with incomplete downloads, and involves unpacking files in their downloaded directories. All these steps combined together with a certain filetype, forms a download strategy.

### So far, so good. But where does Homebrew store the secret code for downloading stuff?
These secret recipes for downloading are stored in the `(repo)/Library/Homebrew/download_strategy.rb` script. It is a huge file. And I mean it. Well, lets take the first step and get right into it.

### The `download_strategy.rb` script structure
There is a basic structural class in the beginning. This is the `AbstractDownloadStrategy` class. It defines the basic functions, out of which we shall be studying only those, which affect the download location in some way. This is mostly because I'd have to write a post 100 times longer if I started explaining every function. However, I'll try explaining a function if it seemingly relates to the download location. Of course, if anyone wants to discuss anything with me, feel free to contact me on any of the mentioned channels. :D

### The `AbstractDownloadStrategy` class structure
Note: There is a `attr_reader :a` function, which essentially means the following:
```
def a
	@a
end
```
So, getting that out of the way, we see that it has the following structure:
- The `initialize` function initializes variables such as name, resource, resource's url, resource's version, meta info (resource's specs).
- The `fetch` function: Download and cache the resource as {#cached_location}.
- The `stage` function: Unpack {#cached_location} into the current working directory, and possibly chdir into the newly-unpacked directory.
- The `clear_cache` function: Remove {#cached_location} and any other files associated with the resource from the cache.
- The `cached_location` function: The path to the cached file or resource. It would prove to be the integral function around which this post revolves.

These mentioned functions are related to using and modifying the cache location. If some other function comes along, I'll explain that then and there.

P.S. Some of the explanation is taken from the comments in the source code.

### Subclasses formed by the `AbstractDownloadStrategy` class

The following classes are the subclasses of `AbstractDownloadStrategy`:
- `VCSDownloadStrategy`
- `AbstractFileDownloadStrategy`

Further, we have the following subclasses of `AbstractFileDownloadStrategy`:
- `CurlDownloadStrategy`
- `LocalBottleDownloadStrategy`

The subclasses of `CurlDownloadStrategy` are:
- `CurlApacheMirrorDownloadStrategy`
- `CurlPostDownloadStrategy`
- `NoUnzipCurlDownloadStrategy`
- `CurlBottleDownloadStrategy`
- `S3DownloadStrategy`
- `GitHubPrivateRepositoryDownloadStrategy`
- `GitHubPrivateRepositoryReleaseDownloadStrategy` (subclass of `GitHubPrivateRepositoryDownloadStrategy`)

The subclasses of `VCSDownloadStrategy` are:
- `SubversionDownloadStrategy`
- `GitDownloadStrategy`
- `GitHubGitDownloadStrategy` (subclass of `GitDownloadStrategy`)
- `CVSDownloadStrategy`
- `MercurialDownloadStrategy`
- `BazaarDownloadStrategy`
- `FossilDownloadStrategy`

Now, that we've learnt most of the structure of `download_strategy.rb`, let me give you the good news. Most of the subclasses don't explicitly access or modify the cached location, but only use the variable `cached_location` in the superclass.

### So which of these classes define or modify the cached_location?
Note that by modifying the cached_location, I mean that the downloaded file's or directory's location is changed, and not the file or any subdirectory involved is modified.

Fortunately, I've gone through the code and organised and separated the classes which favour us (Okay, that is not how we should talk about code, but still). The classes are: `VCSDownloadStrategy`, `CurlDownloadStrategy`, `LocalBottleDownloadStrategy` and the `CVSDownloadStrategy`. Lets go through them one by one.

We have a notable difference here. The files dowloaded using these strategies are different in their names. One follows a *name--cache_tag* style, while one follows a *name-version.extension* style. The first style is followed by `VCSDownloadStrategy`, and the other by `CurlDownloadStrategy`.

### The `VCSDownloadStrategy` class
This class is basically a structure for the downloading strategical classes which follow a version control system. Let's get right into it.

In the initialize function, we have the code in the superclass, followed by 4 variable definitions, `@ref_type`,`@ref`,`@revision`, and `@clone`. The `@clone` variable is the most concerning of all. It is initialized as `@clone = HOMEBREW_CACHE.join(cache_filename)`. This is the defining moment, wherein the file is created in the cache. (To be exact, a Pathname object referring to the file is created, which is essentially a file present in the Homebrew cache.)

The `cache_filename` is a variable which has the form `#{name}--#{cache_tag}`. By default, the cache_tag is set to `__UNKNOWN__`.

The update function may have to be looked at, since it updates the location of the file. Although currently, the function is empty.

### The `CurlDownloadStrategy` class
This is the most important class, the star of the show today. In the `initialize` function, `@mirrors`,`@temporary_path`,`@tarball_path` are defined. The temporary path and the tarball path are those which concern us the most.

The tarball path is defined as follows: `@tarball_path = HOMEBREW_CACHE.join("#{name}-#{version}#{ext}")`. Note that this actually defines a new path, with our beloved Cache being the main directory, and the file being stored directly under. The temporary path is a reflection of the tarball path, since the `cached_location` returns `tarball_path`.

The whole class simply then uses `temporary_path` and `tarball_path` as the locations.

### The `LocalBottleDownloadStrategy` class
The Local Bottle Downloading Strategy is a bit different, since we are actually not downloading a file, but using a Bottle available to us locally. The cached location is explicitly given to the script in the `initialize` function.

### The `CVSDownloadStrategy` class
This class is a bit different from the others. All the classes use `cached_location` as reference for downloading stuff. However, the `CVSDownloadStrategy` class doesn't. In the `fetch` function of the superclass `VCSDownloadStrategy`, a function `clone_repo` is called. This function changes into the `HOMEBREW_CACHE` directory, downloads the cvs repository in it by the name of `cache_filename`, and then exits. This may have to change, in order to follow a directory structure in the cache.

So that is how the downloading strategies use the Homebrew cache. More to come soon!
