---
title: Exploring the Homebrew Codebase &#35;0
description: The first of many posts exploring the Homebrew repository
---

Hello, there!

I've decided to write a series of blogs to document my experience of going through the Homebrew/brew repository. Hopefully, it should turn out as a pretty good starting point for someone planning to explore the Homebrew codebase.

For starters, Homebrew is the best package manager for macOS out there. Oh yeah, and it is open source. ( Obligated to mention the unnecessary detail :P )

In any case, do check out the homepage of [Homebrew](https://brew.sh).

### Prerequisites
Although there is virtually nothing required, the following stuff might help:
- A Mac lying around
- A little bit of programming experience

*Note: I'll sometimes assume that you have brew installed on a Mac, which you have access to. Though you probably would be able to follow me almost completely, having access to a Mac would definitely help.*

### Visiting the Github repository
The repository is available at the following [link](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew). Once you've installed Homebrew on your Mac, you can go to the local repository on your Mac by typing the command `cd $(brew --repository)` on your terminal. This is the same code as that on the online repository I just showed you.

### Basic Homebrew Terminology
Now if you wanna go through with this, then you have to be familiar with Homebrew's usage of certain words.
<dl>
	<dt>Formula :</dt>
	<dd><b>The package definition.</b> Whenever you install something through brew, you run the command <code>brew install software</code>. The software that you wanna install has some processes, which have to be run before it is finally <b>installed</b> on you Mac. This procedural list of processes is a ruby script called a formula.</dd>
	<dt>Keg :</dt>
	<dd><b>The installation prefix of a formula.</b> Once you've run <code>brew install</code> for a formula, you have installed a version of the software. This installation is called a keg. So if you have installed more versions of a software, you have more kegs corresponding to the same formula.</dd>
	<dt>opt prefix :</dt>
	<dd><b>A symlink to the active version of a keg.</b> Remember running <code>python HelloWorld.py</code>? The <code>python</code> command is a symbolic link to the active keg, present in the Cellar.</dd>
	<dt>Cellar :</dt>
	<dd><b>All kegs are installed here.</b> It may seem redundant at first (read the opt prefix explanation), but it is simply a directory containing the kegs. Of course it has a directory structure, but I shall describe that in detail later.</dd>
	<dt>Tap :</dt>
	<dd><b>A Git repository of Formulae and/or commands.</b> You run commands like <code>brew install python</code>. Here, the formula <code>python</code> is stored in python.rb in a repository, homebrew-core. This repository is a Tap.</dd>
	<dt>Bottle :</dt>
	<dd>Pre built keg used instead of building from source.</dd>
	<dt>Cask :</dt>
	<dd>An extension of Homebrew to install macOS native apps.</dd>
	<dt>Brew bundle :</dt>
	<dd>An extension of Homebrew to describe dependencies.</dd>
</dl>
This basic terminology was referenced from [The Formula Cookbook](http://docs.brew.sh/Formula-Cookbook.html).

### Structure of the Homebrew/brew repository
At the time of writing this blog, the structure of the Homebrew/brew repository is as shown:
- Library (directory)
- bin (directory)
- completions (directory)
- docs (directory)
- manpages (directory)
- Some markdown files, unrelated to the execution of the software

I would try to cover some aspects of the Library directory. If you've checked it out, you know that it is huge. And by huge, I mean *literally huge*. The Library directory has the following structure:
- Homebrew (directory)
- .editorconfig
- .rubocop.yml

The Homebrew directory contains all the magic that is happening under the shelf. We shall be seeing this repository and directory again and again, so don't forget the link.

### Saw the folders. Now What?
The purpose of these blogs is to understand the functioning of Homebrew's Cache and cleanup code, and reviewing the structure in general. Since studying the cache usage does not require studying the `brew.rb`, `(repo)/bin/brew`, and `brew.sh` files, we shall not investigate their code, but shall take them up as and when required.

Instead, we shall see the code used in `$brew cleanup`. This is in the script `(repo)/Library/Homebrew/cleanup.rb`. Note that running `brew cleanup` does not run the pointed out script, but runs the `cleanup.rb` present in `(repo)/Library/Homebrew/bin`. However, running the file in the `bin` folder uses the functions in cleanup after importing them, so we shall see the cleanup.rb in the `Homebrew` folder next.
<br />
<br />

More blogs coming soon.
